docs: add detailed review of DeepSeek-R1-0528 coding experience and pe… (#38)
antinomyhq/antinomyhq.github.io: blog/deepseek-r1-0528-coding-experience.md

hide_table_of_contents: false
---

## TL;DR

- **DeepSeek-R1-0528**: Latest open source reasoning model with MIT license
- **Major breakthrough**: Significantly improved performance over previous version (87.5% vs 70% on AIME 2025)
- **Architecture**: 671B total parameters, ~37B active per token via Mixture-of-Experts
- **Major limitation**: 10-15s latency via OpenRouter API vs ~1s for other models
- **Best for**: Complex reasoning, architectural planning, vendor independence
- **Poor for**: Real-time coding, rapid iteration, interactive development
- **Bottom line**: Impressive reasoning capabilities, but latency challenges practical use

## The Promise vs. My 8-Hour Reality Check

> **From @deepseek_ai**:
> DeepSeek-R1-0528 is now available! This latest reasoning model shows substantial improvements across benchmarks while maintaining MIT licensing for complete open-source access.
>
> _Source: https://x.com/deepseek_ai/status/1928061589107900779_

**My response**: Hold my coffee while I test this "breakthrough"...

> **SPOILER**: It's brilliant... if you can wait 15 seconds for every response.

Author: ```suggestion
**SPOILER**: It's brilliant... if you can wait 30 seconds for every response. And it keeps increasing as your context grows
```

When R1-0528 generates a 2000-token reasoning trace for a 100-token answer, you pay computational cost for all 2100 tokens.

## The Benchmarks Don't Lie (But They Don't Code Either)

The performance improvements are legitimate:

### Key Wins

| Benchmark                   | Previous | R1-0528 | Improvement       |
| --------------------------- | -------- | ------- | ----------------- |
| **AIME 2025**               | 70.0%    | 87.5%   | +17.5%            |
| **Coding (LiveCodeBench)**  | 63.5%    | 73.3%   | +9.8%             |
| **Codeforces Rating**       | 1530     | 1930    | +400 points       |
| **SWE Verified (Resolved)** | 49.2%    | 57.6%   | Notable progress  |
| **Aider-Polyglot**          | 53.3%    | 71.6%   | Major improvement |

![DeepSeek-R1-0528 Official Benchmarks](https://huggingface.co/deepseek-ai/DeepSeek-R1-0528/resolve/main/figures/benchmark.png)

**But here's the thing**: Benchmarks run with infinite patience. Real development doesn't.

### The Latency Reality

| Model Type           | Response Time | Developer Experience |
| -------------------- | ------------- | -------------------- |
| **Claude/GPT-4**     | 0.8-1.0s      | Smooth iteration     |

> | **DeepSeek-R1-0528** | **10-15s**    | Productivity killer  |

Author: ```suggestion
| **DeepSeek-R1-0528** | **15-30s**    | Productivity killer  |
```
